God, thank you.
Thank you for your word to us.
Thank you that you reveal who you are through it.
You reveal who we are and what we need.
Lord, we need you.
Thank you for the gift of profession of faith.
Thank you that you have poured out your spirit.
You have moved these individuals to profess faith in Christ.
We thank you for that.
We know a lot of that comes from the power of your word that lives and moves and breathes in Jesus Christ, but also in written and visible form.
So we thank you for that.
And now, God, as we engage your word together as a congregation, we pray that you'd open up our hearts and our minds and our ears so that we might know your word and that to which you are calling us.
Encourage us by it, challenge us by it, assure us of your goodness.
And God, for those who are in the nursery,
With our little ones, we pray that you would strengthen them, give them the patience that they need.
Lord, we pray for our little ones that they too would be brought to a profession of faith in Christ someday.
But for now, Lord, we trust that your hand is over them as you've called them into the covenant family.
And we pray that they would be growing minute by minute, hour by hour, day by day.
We lift up this time to you in your name, O Lord, amen.
All right, so Exodus chapter 17, verses eight through 16.
The words are gonna be on the screen.
This comes after the Israelites have been freed from slavery in Egypt.
They've been journeying for a little bit now.
And this is what it reads.
The Amalekites came and attacked the Israelites at Refidim.
Moses said to Joshua, choose some of our men and go out to fight the Amalekites.
Tomorrow I will stand on top of the hill with the staff of God in my hands.
So Joshua fought the Amalekites as Moses had ordered.
And Moses, Aaron, and her went to the top of the hill.
I was paused here.
I need a volunteer from our profession of faith students.
I need somebody that feels strong, relatively strong.
You don't have to say anything.
But what you're going to have to do is you're going to have to hold up a staff, a staff of God.
I'm going to go, oh, Charlie, thank you.
He did put up his hand.
I didn't just call on him.
OK.
So, Charlie, you can just stand maybe just like right here.
And what you're gonna do is you are going to hold up, hold up your hands, right?
Okay, yep, you're just gonna keep them up.
If you need to drop them down to rest, you can drop them down to rest, but I want you to hold them up as long as you can.
I did this this week, and I could only last three minutes, okay?
All right, here we go.
You're gonna do this for the whole sermon.
Cheers.
Okay.
All right, as long as Moses held up his hands, the Israelites were winning.
But whenever he lowered his hands, the Amalekites were winning.
So this is important, Charlie, let you keep your hands up.
When Moses' hands grew tired, they took a stone and put it under him, and he sat on it.
You're going to be standing the whole time.
Aaron and her held his hands up, one on one side, one on the other, so that his hands remained steady till sunset.
So Joshua overcame the Amalekite army with a sword.
Then the Lord said to Moses, write this on a scroll as something to be remembered and make sure that Joshua hears it, because I will completely blot out the name of Amalek from under heaven.
Moses built an altar and called it the Lord is my banner.
He said, because hands were lifted up against the throne of the Lord, the Lord will be at war against the Amalekites from generation to generation.
The congregation of the Lord, this is his word, the word of the Lord, we say, thanks be to God.
Charlie, how you doing?
Oh, you're strong.
You're going to make it a lot longer than three minutes, I feel.
We'll see how fast I can talk, though.
OK, so here's Israel.
This is Charlie.
This is not Israel.
But Israel in our story.
Israel has made it through.
They've made it through to the other side of the Red Sea.
They have been set free from captivity in Egypt.
They're freed from slavery.
The Lord has provided food for them.
The Lord has provided water for them.
And now they're encountering their first physical enemy, the Amalekites.
Now the Amalekites are a smart, yet ruthless bunch of people.
Now the Amalekites, they're a nomadic tribe, a nomadic group.
What they do is they attack
They attack vulnerable groups.
They plunder.
They're like raiders.
They steal from others who are journeying.
And they're ruthless in the sense that they attack where the other groups are the weakest.
So here are the Israelites now.
They've come out of slavery in Egypt.
They're weirried.
They've been journeying for a little bit.
They're inexperienced in battle.
They've been living as slaves for a very long time, so they don't really know how to fight.
They're probably ill-equipped, they don't have weapons, probably don't have many if any at all.
And so now they are coming up against their first physical enemy.
They've made it through the waters, they're freed from slavery in Egypt, but really the hardships, the battles are about to begin.
And now for you, for you 12.
You doing okay, Charlie?
Okay, yeah, you feeling in the deltoids?
Yeah, it's great workout.
For the 12 of you who professed your faith, you have made it through to the other side, right?
You have come through the Red Sea.
You've come through a past sin and past death that is caused by sin.
And now you've been put into a life with Christ.
You have life and you have freedom with Jesus Christ.
And yet the hardships are not over.
Because there's an enemy who wants to take that.
There's an enemy who wants to destroy God's people.
And like the Amalekites, remember, if you need to put it down, you can put it down and take a rest for a second.
Okay.
It's hard.
Yeah.
What are we at now?
Three and a half.
Oh, good.
Okay.
Yep.
Take a rest.
Yep, just know that the Israelites are losing now.
But know that as you go through this now, that there will be an enemy.
It is unrealistic to think that the battle, that the road, the journey will be easy because you're going to be coming up against an enemy who wants to take this profession of faith and destroy it, to take it away from you, to do anything that this enemy can in order to draw you away from the Lord.
So I want you to think about where, where are you facing battles right now?
Or maybe where will you face battles in the future?
And if it's like the Israelites, the Israelites were attacked by the people who were lagging behind, those who were kind of falling, falling behind and left exposed.
These are who the Amalekites took out.
They knew the weakness of the Israelites.
So I want you to think, where are you weak?
Where are you most vulnerable?
Where are you prone to attack?
Maybe for some of you it's identity.
where you're in a time of trying to figure out just who you are.
Now you are God's sons, you are God's daughters, you belong to the Lord.
But the cultural around you will tell you that no, your identity is based on what you look like, what your body type is, the kind of clothes you wear.
They're gonna tell you that it's based on how good you are at sports or how good you are at certain activities.
They're gonna tell you that it's based on the people that you hang out with.
Maybe you internalize what people say about you.
Somebody makes a joke and you take it to heart.
Or somebody says something behind your back or to the front of your face and you internalize it.
Well, the enemy wants to take that profession, who you are in Christ and distort it, and tell you, no, that's not who you are.
Maybe it's your identity.
Or maybe it's your pride.
You are your smart people.
you've been well provided for.
You are beautiful people.
You have food, you have friends, you have family, you have intelligence.
In the words of the places you'll go, you have brains in your head.
You have feet in your shoes.
And you steer the direction for whatever you choose.
I think that's how it goes.
And the enemy is gonna tempt you to say,
I have what it takes.
Everything I need is right here between my ears or everything I need right here is in these arms of mine or on my strength.
The enemy is going to entice you to think that you do not need God, that you do not need other people.
So is it going to be in your pride where you're attacked?
There's gonna be in body, body, body's a big thing, the way that you view your own body, the way that you view other bodies.
That God has given us this beautiful creation of our bodies and we have a tendency to distort.
We have a tendency to malign what God has given to us.
Is this where God, is this where you are gonna be most vulnerable?
Because rest assured there's an enemy out there and like the Amalekites who knew exactly where to attack the weakest group, the Lord is gonna attack you in your weakness.
But the Lord is our defender, right?
The Lord is our defender.
And He has it through the staff.
Let's get some helpers up here.
Kind of two people.
Two people, okay.
Yep.
Johannes and Liam, we're going to give you an errand and a her.
Okay.
Go ahead and hold up.
Yep.
One on each side.
Hold up his arms.
Physically hold up his arms.
There you go.
Okay, this is perfect.
All right.
Sorry, I was feeling really bad.
This was a lot longer than I thought it was going to be.
Sorry, guys.
The Lord is our defender.
Okay, so the staff.
The staff of God, this is actually a stick that came from a national area of Tennessee that Anna
And yep, that's Anna's.
But this is the staff.
The staff of God is what Moses has in his hand.
And the staff of God, this is central to the Exodus story.
The staff of God, if you remember, is what Moses has it, and he strikes the Nile.
God has him strike the Nile, and it turns the waters to blood.
Moses has the staff in the plagues that are brought upon Egypt.
Moses has the staff of God, and he holds it up.
The Lord has him hold it up before the Red Sea and the waters part.
Moses has the staff of God, and he strikes
the rock and water comes gushing out for the Israelites to be refreshed and to drink.
The staff of God is central.
A central piece of this Exodus story, but it's not the staff itself.
This is just a symbol.
The symbol that the Lord is present.
A symbol that the Lord's power is right here.
That God is for you.
That God is there to be with you, to protect you.
That God is there to defend you, to deliver you.
That God is there to fight for you.
And now Moses is called again with this staff in hand.
He goes to the top of the hill.
And he has to, it's a direct correlation, right?
As Moses' hands are raised high with the staff of the Lord in his hands, the Israelites win.
But when his arms get tired and the staff goes down, well, the Israelites begin to lose the Amalekite start to win.
What this is telling the people that it is the Lord's victory.
This is the Lord's battle.
The Lord is the one who is protecting you.
The Lord is the one who is going to defend you.
And this is what God does for his people.
God defends them.
God protects them.
God defeats their enemies.
And so for us, we're getting close, guys.
We're getting close.
The first thing that I want you to know, the first thing that I want you to take away is that the Lord is your defender.
The Lord is your defender because the enemy is stronger than you.
I want you to hear that.
The enemy is stronger than you.
The enemy is well-resourced.
The enemy knows where you are vulnerable.
But you have the spirit of the living God inside of you.
You have the spirit of Christ inside of you.
And as it says in 1 John, greater is he who is in you.
Greater is he who lives in you than he who is in the world.
That spirit of God is living inside of you.
So in times of temptation, in times of confusion, in times of doubt, in times when you're being pulled away, don't turn to your own strength.
Don't turn to your own wisdom.
Turn to the Lord.
He is your defender.
The Lord is your protector.
The Lord is the one who cares for you.
Okay, that's the first thing.
The Lord is your defender.
Okay, second thing.
You guys are doing great.
Second thing, you are not alone.
You are not alone.
Moses, Moses, the great prophet of the Lord, he needed.
He needed help.
Moses needed help.
So Aaron and her, do you want to be heard?
Do you want to be Aaron?
Aaron and her are sent along with Moses because Moses can't do it by himself.
The Israelites need to know that they cannot do it by themselves.
You cannot do it by yourself.
We were never meant to walk this journey of faith alone.
Because I will tell you, this is a long journey.
This is a hard journey, and you cannot do it alone.
It is not wise.
You are not meant to do it alone.
I want you to think, who are the people around you?
Who are the people close to you?
Family, friends, and not just close to you, but those people who encourage you in your faith.
Those people who will push you and pull you towards Christ.
Look around.
Look around, there's a whole church.
There's a whole congregation of people who want to see you hold onto that profession, who want to see you grow in that profession.
There's a whole group of people who are willing to go the distance, who will go to great lengths to see you grow in your faith.
I know it is hard.
I know it's hard to reach out and ask for help.
It is hard to depend on other people, but it is unwise.
It is not how we were designed.
We're never meant to go through it alone.
The Lord is our defender.
The Lord is our strength.
The Lord surrounds us with His people so that we can continue to live for Him.
All of God's people said, amen.
Thank you, Charlie.
And thank you, Erin, and thank you her.
All right, so I want you to take a minute.
I don't want you to consider where do I need in my life?
Where do I need to trust the Lord to defend me?
Where in my life do I need to reach out for help to trust the body of Christ that the Lord has surrounded me with?
So if you want to, you can just think about this.
Mentally, we have these yellow slips of paper.
This is the offering sheet.
This is meant for you to write on.
What shall I return to the Lord for His goodness to me?
So think about these questions.
Where do I need the Lord's defense?
Where have I been trusting in myself?
Where do I need support?
Where do I need to reach out and ask for help?
So take a minute.
Just write that down.
The worship team will come back up front and we'll respond in worship.